**Project: Prediction of the six-minute walk test with gait kinematics**

In this project, a better understanding of the gait parameters important for the outcome of the 6-minute walking test (6MWT), a test measuring walking distance after six minutes that is closely related to daily walking, will be investigated. In this way, therapies aimed at restoring walking function in MS and SCI patients could be better tailored.

Three-dimensionalfull-body kinematic movement analysis provides objective and quantitative measures. This technique is able to unravel the individual factors underlying a given patient’s gait dysfunction, even in complex neurological conditions such as multiple sclerosis (MS) or spinal cord injury (SCI). 3D gait analysis permits the cataloguing and processing of numerous kinematic parameters (e.g., spatiotemporal data, joint angles etc.). Today, it represents the gold standard in assessing locomotor dysfunction in humans. Such techniques are informative concerning how exactly patients move and provide more in-depth insights into complex walking dysfunctions. However, among these many kinematic parameters, there is no evidence to date as to which are the most revealing for daily walking, or more precisely, for the endurance test (6MWT).

**Method**

All patients underwent 3D motion analysis where they walked for 30 seconds on a treadmill (120 Hz, FDM-T, Zebris Medical GmbH, Germany). The gait was laboratory equipped with 27 infrared cameras recording via Nexus (Vicon, Oxford, UK) motion capture software at a sampling rate of 200 Hz. Twenty-nine reflective markers (14 mm diameter) were placed on the skin based on the full-body gait model (Plug-in-Gait, Vicon, UK). All patients walked on the treadmill at a fixed speed of 2.5 km/h. Data were processed using Vicon Nexus motion capture software (Vicon, Oxford, UK) and the gait parameters were extracted using an in-house made MATLAB algorithm (2020b, The Mathworks Inc. Natick, Massachusetts, United States). A set of 38 gait parameters, such as range of motion at different joints, stability, leg coordination, symmetry, end-point measures, gait phases and variability [11], were calculated for each patient. Bilateral gait parameters were distinguished between the more impaired (MI) leg and the less impaired (LI) leg, instead of left and right. Impairments in each leg were assessed by a physician during a neurological examination. For each gait parameter, the mean for each step cycle and then the mean of all the steps were calculated for each patient. In addition, patients performed the 6MWT.

In order to characterise which gait parameters are the most important in the 6MWT outcome, a prediction analysis was be conducted. The analysis was performed in Python 3 (Python Software Foundation. Python Language Reference, version 3.8. Available at http://www.python.org). Using the python package scikit-learn, supervised machine learning, more specifically linear regression and classification, such as logistic regression and support vector machine (SVM), were implemented. In order to identify how many classes are necessary for the prediction of the 6MWT with SVM, k-nearest neighbours (kNN) was used. In addition, feature selection, more specifically sequential feature selection using the python packages sklearn and mlxtend, was implemented to find the best set of gait parameters predicting the 6MWT. Finally, an evaluation of the predictions of each algorithm was analysed in terms of mean absolute errors (MAE) for regression and confusion matrix for classification.


